Welcome back in this lecture we're going to start off our discussion by talking about the very basics
of CSX CSA stands for cascading style sheets and it's a style sheet language used for describing the
presentation of a document written in H.
But basically that means is that CSSA allows us to change style attributes of to him l elements and
that can be things like the color of an element the background of an element the borders of an element
and much much more.
First we need to do is actually create a CSSA file in order to effect those style attributes.
So the very basics as far as the steps we need to take is we're going to create a file for Dotsie SS
extension then we're going to use CSSA syntax to link element tags.
Then we're going to add style attribute name value pairs such as connecting the color attribute to a
specific value like red or blue.
And then finally we connect that CSSA document to our HVM l through a call in the head of the HMO.
Now I know it sounds like a lot but in practice it's actually very simple.
Let's get started by heading over to our text editor right here am back at the text editor and they
have my browser linked to the H Tim L file.
What I'm going to do is just type up h tim will enter so it has the auto complete and then inside the
body.
I'm going to add a few elements I'll add a Heading 1 and say this is the heading and then I will add
a paragraph to that as well.
And the paragraph will say let's see a list.
Then after that I'll have an ordered list.
And then inside this ordered list I have a few list items such as Item 1 and let's add two more items
here.
Item to and then Item 3 and then below this ordered list let's add one more thing we'll say heading
for and I'm asking a straight up type heading for OK.
I save that I'm going to refresh my browser and now I see this link to the HMO.
This is the heading.
Let's see a list item one two and three and then heading for.
Now what I'm going to do is try to affect the style properties of these Timah elements using CSSA and
the way I do that is first I need to create a new file.
So if I open up my left hand tab here notice under this folder flask examples I have basic Laddie's
Timo.
I'm going to create a new file here and you can really call this whatever you want.
I'm going to call it Master dot C Ss.
Again the actual name doesn't matter.
You just need to make sure that you're ending it with Dot CSSA.
That way Adam knows that you're talking about SS or a stylesheet file.
Ok so I have this master that CSSA file what I want to do is add property value pairs to this and the
general format is the following.
You have some sort of selected tag such as H-1.
So this is a tag that's in my name I'll file.
Here we see the H-1 tag and then you have curly braces.
Open and close curly braces and then inside of these curly braces Usually you'll see it formatted like
this.
If you hit enter you have the open and close.
And here is where you have those property value pairs.
So for example one of the really common properties is the color property.
So every single A-stan mint usually has some sort of color property you can mess around with or change.
So you have the property and then you'll say colon and then the actual value.
This property should have.
So for example colors can be names or coats.
So I'll say blue and then to end this I have a semi-colon.
So that way I know I have this single property value pairing.
So check this out.
I then to save this you'll notice if I refreshed my page I don't see anything change.
And that's because I haven't linked this dot CSSA file to my basic but each team l file.
So let's go ahead and show you how you can do that.
What you do is inside of this head block in between the opening head tag and the closing head Ted you're
going to start with a link and you can hit enter here and have it auto complete this link.
I'm going to collapse that sidebar so we can see the whole thing.
And basically a link right here is a self-closing tag doesn't have the closing tags just a single tag.
And we have some sort of relationship attribute and it's saying stylesheet we want to keep that because
this is going to tell the HTL hey this link it's a stylesheet implement those styles on the T.M..
What we need to change is this breath.
Basically this is where you provide the file path to your thoughts CSSA file.
And right now I'm just going to say it's under M. thought SS Remember you're gonna need to provide whatever
you called your C Ss file.
You should also know that right now this master CSSA file.
If I expand this tab again it's in the exact same folder location as my H Tim L file.
So that's why I just need to provide its name.
That's VSS all right so let's check this out.
I'm gonna save those changes it makes T.M..
And now I should have linked my CSSA file successfully to my HMO.
I'm going to refresh.
And now you should see this is the heading turned blue.
So what's actually happening here.
Well the C S S you're saying grab every H-1 elements.
Curly braces and then change these properties to be these values and you can check out resources that
are linked to you in the resource section of this course.
But basically you have resources like W3 schools and the Mozilla and the documentation that shows you
all the various properties and values you can adjust.
We will be missing of too many properties but color is one that you probably want to adjust often.
OK so let's explore how to adjust more property tags or elements in sort of Timo.
So right now we're affecting every single H-1.
Let's see if we can effect list items.
So I'll say I open and close parentheses and then I decide on a property and the value so I can take
in color as a property again.
And there's many string codes you can provide as the actual value but often you are looking for specific
colors maybe not something that you can find in a Crayola box like blue or red.
Instead you want a particular shade.
One way to do this is by defining R.G. be values.
So what this stands for are red green and blue.
So maybe I want a little bit of red in there 30 and then you can go up to 200 and then maybe I don't
want any blue there.
So there's a little bit of red and mostly green.
I'm going to save that.
And then when I save those changes I'm basically saying grab every Leithead.
So that's going to be item one item to item three here and then affect the colors using this RGV scale.
So if I refresh now I see them turn essentially green and what I can do is if I want to affect them
I can add maybe some more blue in there.
So we'll say 100 save that.
And if you refresh.
You should see the changes.
Now right now it's not making a big difference so let's reduce the green to something really small maybe
like 50 save those changes refresh.
And I get to see that blue come in.
OK.
So in other way you can affect colors.
And let's do it now.
The paragraph tag again we choose the tag that we're trying to affect inside the T.M..
I'll say color.
And another way you can do this is using a hex code to just say hash tag.
And then the hex code.
And if you're unfamiliar if choosing R.G. or hex code values come to your browser and search for Hex
color and you should see a hex color picker automatically show up in Google.
Again that's just hecks color in Google and you'll see this automatically show up and now provides the
hex code as well as the R.G. code.
So you can move this around and choose a color that works for you.
So let's try to choose maybe a unique orange.
So this one is OK.
So going to copy this hex code and then I'll paste it in here.
Inside my CSSA file.
And then what I should do is close this off of a semi colon.
You'll notice they didn't close off the one inside the list of a semi-colon.
Basically you need to use semi-colons when you have more than one property value pairs.
So it's always good just to have them in there even if you only have one property value pair per element.
So let's save those changes.
We'll head back to our basic H-2A model and when I refreshed this now I see the paragraph tag looks
like that orange.
Let's see a list.
OK.
And finally the last one we can affect color.
Let's do on H for that last heading there.
I'll say color Colin.
And then I can also use an R G B A value.
And basically what this allows you to do is add a for value instead of just red green blue.
A For value of transparency.
So that's what Alpha stands for.
So maybe I'll do like 13 ninety one 40 in if I just choose 0 here hit save and then refresh.
You'll notice it looks like heading disappeared.
But it's actually still there it's just fully transparent.
So if you only want it to be maybe half transparent you'll say 0.5.
Save this.
And then when I refresh the page.
Now I can see that it looks a little transparent.
And if I have this fully at one save that and refresh then it has no transparency.
So basically zero is fully transparent and one is fully opaque.
So that's a fourth value you can add in in case you want your font to maybe color wise blend into the
background a little bit.
So that's R.G. B.
And then this alpha parameter for transparency.
OK.
So that's the very basics of a CSSA file.
Again we have to do is we choose the element that we want to affect inside the h m l.
We have these open unclose curly braces.
We choose the property and we'll be exploring different properties throughout these lectures.
And then you choose a value for that property.
Color is one of those properties that has a lot of different types of inputs.
Later on we're going to see other properties that are a little more strict than the type of inputs.
Now that's actually a good thing that we don't need to remember all these different possibilities.
Often what I like to do is just open up that hecks color picker choose a color and then kind of play
around with it and later on we'll learn about bootstrap which has its own default styles.
But once you've created this CSSA file all you need to do is make sure that you've linked to the H team
L.
So you create this link set the relationship to the string stylesheet which is the default and then
make sure your breath is pointing to whatever your CSSA file is called.
OK that's the very basics of creating CSSA and linking it to your Each table.
We'll see you at the next lecture.